Now we have this format, we are validating user entries.
We also validate the uniqueness of the email by asking to be scanned, but even we had a valid form
before we submit to backend.
That doesn't mean this request can pass the validation site.
Now let's think about this scenario.
So we have two window here and let's fill the first form with a non-existing user like user 30, user
30 at mail com.
And this is being validated at backend and there is no user with this email and entering the password.
And password.
Repeat now the form is ready, but I'm not clicking the sign up in another window.
I fill the form and I'm using the same email.
At the moment.
This is not.
This email is not in use.
Therefore, both of these forms are showing this email is valid.
So revealing the password and password repeat now sending a signup request to backend and this one is
receiving success and showing the the success message to user.
But let's try this one on the second form.
But before that, let's open the developer tools.
So I'm just clicking sign up here and the request is rejected from back end.
The request is receiving 400 bad request and in the response body we are receiving this validation errors
and it has this email field and the message is use another email.
So even the validation is passes on the client side.
That doesn't mean that request will not fail with the validation in the back end.
This request still can be failing with the validation at hand, and we should be reflecting the error
messages coming from back end to user so that user can fix it and then sends the form once again.
So we need to cover these kind of cases.
Our client must be capable to handle the validation failure responses coming from back end and show
the corresponding messages to user.
Now let's handle the validation errors coming from Beckett.
First, we are going to add a test, but I'm going to add the test to the not this described look but
into these interactions described block.
So after this test it hides sign up form after successful sign because I'm adding this new test.
And in this one, it displays a validation error coming from back end after submit failure.
We will be repeating similar steps we have done in previous ones.
So just copying all the all the function and pasting here.
So we are filling the form.
And we are going to click to the button.
Then with this HTP testing controller, we are going to handle the request coming to this end point.
But this time, instead of returning to 100, we are going to return an error message and we can do
that like this.
The flash is taking and not only the this is the response body, not only the response body, but also
we can set the status code or additional headers, those kinds of things we can set here as well.
So the first one is the the request response body.
And in the response body, it's going to be similar to this one.
There will be validation errors and there will be email in it.
So like here, validation errors.
And in it we will have the email and let's say this is for testing purposes.
We can set any message we like.
It doesn't matter what we are setting here.
Email in use.
So this is the response body.
And the second parameter we can set the options of like the status will be 400 and the status text will
be bad request.
So the testing controller is returning this error message back.
We are updating the UI.
Then we will check the the email validation error like here, just copying this one.
And pasting here.
So we are querying the email validation, the element having this email validation test ID and in it
the text will be emailed in use which is coming from backend.
Now switching to the karma window.
Let's save this one.
So this test is failing.
Let's fix this.
We are going to fix this in the sign up component class so far in the quick signup up, we are we are
signing the sign up request, but we are only handling the success response which is in the end setting
the signup success to true.
But now we are receiving an error and to handle the error cases instead of passing just this function
as a.
For this subscribe we will pass an object.
So this.
This subscribe is basically taking the subscription.
So just cutting this part.
And.
If you go into this subscribe we were using this one, we were passing just a callback function, which
is this one, but now we are going to pass an observer.
So the observer is an object.
It has three properties.
Next complete and error.
So the next is the previous function we were passing.
So this is called when the Observer is returning a success response.
And when there is an error for this case, the HTTP error, it is being handled in this error function
we are defining here.
So there is this function.
So this error is being called with the active error response.
Let's get that parameter.
Let's call this one HTTP error.
And the type of this this object is HTP error response.
And we can access to the validation errors like this is it error has the error and this is basically
the response body coming from backend.
And in it we have the validation errors like we are setting here, validation errors.
And in it we have the the the email field.
This one.
So we are taking validation errors.
And from validation errors we are taking email.
So this is the, the, the text message returned back from, from the back, let's say this is the email
validation error message.
Now we are going to display this message on UI.
And to do that, we can use the form element here.
Like here we are getting the errors of the the email field from form.
So we take the email field.
Then from that field we are taking the, the, the validation failures so we can do something like this.
We can add an error for this email and we can set whatever we want and we can also inject the message
into it.
So like we can say this form, we get the email.
Then we can set errors for it.
And as an error, this is looking for an object.
It's like the validation error object, which is basically a key and value.
The key is up to us.
Like we we had the key like unique email.
And for this one we can set and the key like let's say this is the back end failure.
And as a message we can pass this email validation error message.
So we are taking the the message from API response then setting into the errors object of these forms,
email form, control element.
Then here in the email error, we are just checking the required email or unique email errors.
But now we have another error type which is backend so we can say ls if filled errors as this backend.
Ever.
Then let's return the message coming with it.
Basically, the message coming with it is.
This.
This one like this.
The others are returning true false values.
But we are having our custom messages right here.
But for the back end case, we we didn't set it to true or false, but we just passed the value, the
message value to it.
So here we can take that value.
And whenever this email error is called in the template right here, this is the input for the email.
This email error will be having the message coming from back end.
So the implementation is done.
Let's save it to see if it is working.
And here we see the tests are passing and the test was here in the space validation error coming from
back end after summit failure.
Now to test this one easily, I made a minor change on back end site for making sure the user one at
gmail.com to be unique.
There is a user one with user one at gmail.com, but in this validation part it will be considered as
valid even there is that in the back end just to test this behavior.
So here filling the form with like user 100 and email addresses, this one and the password is this
one.
Now also let's open the console here, clearing the console in network tablets.
Click the sign up.
And here we are receiving this 400 bed request, which is returning.
Use another email for this email validation and we are displaying that message for the email input.
So with this implementation, we are able to handle the validation errors coming from back end and we
are displaying that validation to user.